visible-venus/src/content/blog/aarav-first-post.md, before:

---
title: 'test post'
description: 'testing out using md to make a post'
pubDate: 'Sept 02 2025'
heroImage: '../../assets/blog-placeholder-3.jpg'
---

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Vitae ultricies leo integer malesuada nunc vel risus commodo viverra. Adipiscing enim eu turpis egestas pretium. Euismod elementum nisi quis eleifend quam adipiscing. In hac habitasse platea dictumst vestibulum. Sagittis purus sit amet volutpat. Netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Eget magna fermentum iaculis eu non diam phasellus vestibulum lorem. Varius sit amet mattis vulputate enim. Habitasse platea dictumst quisque sagittis. Integer quis auctor elit sed vulputate mi. Dictumst quisque sagittis purus sit amet.

Morbi tristique senectus et netus. Id semper risus in hendrerit gravida rutrum quisque non tellus. Habitasse platea dictumst quisque sagittis purus sit amet. Tellus molestie nunc non blandit massa. Cursus vitae congue mauris rhoncus. Accumsan tortor posuere ac ut. Fringilla urna porttitor rhoncus dolor. Elit ullamcorper dignissim cras tincidunt lobortis. In cursus turpis massa tincidunt dui ut ornare lectus. Integer feugiat scelerisque varius morbi enim nunc. Bibendum neque egestas congue quisque egestas diam. Cras ornare arcu dui vivamus arcu felis bibendum. Dignissim suspendisse in est ante in nibh mauris. Sed tempus urna et pharetra pharetra massa massa ultricies mi.

Mollis nunc sed id semper risus in. Convallis a cras semper auctor neque. Diam sit amet nisl suscipit. Lacus viverra vitae congue eu consequat ac felis donec. Egestas integer eget aliquet nibh praesent tristique magna sit amet. Eget magna fermentum iaculis eu non diam. In vitae turpis massa sed elementum. Tristique et egestas quis ipsum suspendisse ultrices. Eget lorem dolor sed viverra ipsum. Vel turpis nunc eget lorem dolor sed viverra. Posuere ac ut consequat semper viverra nam. Laoreet suspendisse interdum consectetur libero id faucibus. Diam phasellus vestibulum lorem sed risus ultricies tristique. Rhoncus dolor purus non enim praesent elementum facilisis. Ultrices tincidunt arcu non sodales neque. Tempus egestas sed sed risus pretium quam vulputate. Viverra suspendisse potenti nullam ac tortor vitae purus faucibus ornare. Fringilla urna porttitor rhoncus dolor purus non. Amet dictum sit amet justo donec enim.

Mattis ullamcorper velit sed ullamcorper morbi tincidunt. Tortor posuere ac ut consequat semper viverra. Tellus mauris a diam maecenas sed enim ut sem viverra. Venenatis urna cursus eget nunc scelerisque viverra mauris in. Arcu ac tortor dignissim convallis aenean et tortor at. Curabitur gravida arcu ac tortor dignissim convallis aenean et tortor. Egestas tellus rutrum tellus pellentesque eu. Fusce ut placerat orci nulla pellentesque dignissim enim sit amet. Ut enim blandit volutpat maecenas volutpat blandit aliquam etiam. Id donec ultrices tincidunt arcu. Id cursus metus aliquam eleifend mi.

Tempus quam pellentesque nec nam aliquam sem. Risus at ultrices mi tempus imperdiet. Id porta nibh venenatis cras sed felis eget velit. Ipsum a arcu cursus vitae. Facilisis magna etiam tempor orci eu lobortis elementum. Tincidunt dui ut ornare lectus sit. Quisque non tellus orci ac. Blandit libero volutpat sed cras. Nec tincidunt praesent semper feugiat nibh sed pulvinar proin gravida. Egestas integer eget aliquet nibh praesent tristique magna.

Commit message:

Finished first post, changed thumbnail for first post

visible-venus/src/content/blog/aarav-first-post.md, after:

---
title: 'First Post'
description: 'Testing out how to make a post'
pubDate: 'Sept 05 2025'
heroImage: '../../assets/hashtag-one.jpg'
---

This is my first post on my website/blog. I am not a huge fan of the word blog, so I might be changing that out for something else. 

## About the site
I think that virutually every computer science student ends up making a personal website. Most people end up creating a static site, and that is what I was leaning towards at first. However, I end up working on a ton of side projects, and I have always wanted a way to share them. A static site wouldn't really meet the requirements I had, so I started searching for a relatively simple way to create a personal website. I have experience with using React, Material UI, and AWS through a previous internship, but that seemed like overkill for my needs. In the end, I ended up going with Astro. 

### Why Astro?
I chose to use Astro because it's optimized for content heavy sites and it's relatively simple to work with. I don't have much web development experience, so I wanted to go with something that was more powerful than a static site, but not too complicated to learn. Astro also has a number of features that were perfect for my use case, some of my favorites include:

#### My Favorite Astro Features
- Markdown and MDX support
    - Allows me to import components into Markdown text
- Framwork agnostic
    - Through integrations, I can use things like React, Vue, etc.
- Optimized for content heavy sites
    - Astro renders pages as static HTML by default, and only "hydrates" interactive components when needed

Overall, I think that using Astro will really allow me to showcase what I'm doing in a manner that's simple to create, but beautiful to view. I would highly recommend Astro to anyone who is new to web development, and wants more than a static site. I'll be making future posts about how I choose to host the site, any future thoughts on using Astro, and of course any other projects I am working on.
